okay so while everyone has been focused
on the Deep seek R1 out there and
Invidia shares have been crashing and
markets have been changing Etc the
biggest lesson that should come out of
this is the whole thing about open
source basically advancing things and
not because of any one company doing it
because people are able to then take
those open source models learn the
lessons from them and then often
fine-tune them we've seen this recently
from Deep seek we've seen this from quen
but one of the companies that kicked all
of this off really early on was mistr
and today mist is back with their M
Small 3 this is a brand new model that
they're releasing not only are they
releasing a fine-tune version they're
releasing the bass version and it's all
Apache 2 licensed meaning that you can
then use it for your fine tunes you can
modify it you can serve it on Prem you
can do all these things just like back
in the days of the mistal 7B when it
first came along and really took things
like fine tuning base models doing model
merges all this stuff at one stage was
all the mistr 7B model that people were
using the new Mist small is not 7B right
this is a 24 billion parameter model and
they're claiming that this is
competitive with llama 3.3 70b and quen
32b and that for its size this is
basically a replacement for something
like GPT 40 mini and while lately much
of the focus has been on the reasoning
models that like the R1 the o01 the 03
Etc really for most people what they
need is a really good Workhorse model
that is very powerful but also very
quick and mra's 24 billion parameter
model here is shaping up to be exactly
that so like I mentioned earlier they've
released the whole thing this is it up
on hugging face we can see that they've
released both the base model and the
instruct model as we can see here we've
got a full Apache 2 license here
allowing for usage modification
commercial non-commercial we've got a
32k context window out of the gate
meaning that we don't have to wait for
people to fine-tune this themselves with
rope or something to get longer context
which I'm sure people will do and take
it out to 64k or 128k
but the really good thing is that from
the start they've basically put out this
32k version here so while it's not a
fully hardcore multilingual model they
are supporting dozens of languages
mostly Western European languages Etc
but you've also got Chinese Japanese
Korean in there and some of the things
that really make this interesting is
that they've also heavily focused on the
agentic uses of this so basically this
is for having things like native
function calling Jon structured outputs
Etc all of this sort of baked into the
model from the start now 24 billion
parameters is a big model right that's
not a tiny model by any standards but it
does seem that Mr sort of realized that
people are going to quantize this and
they seem to be going for that sweet
spot where a quantized version of this
will run on your laptop allowing people
to do sort of private chat and private
rag Etc without having to send any
information at all to the cloud but also
this size seems that it can be deployed
in the cloud and yet still get a very
low latency very high tokens per second
out of this another really good thing to
see in their blog post is their whole
commitment to open- Source models with a
lot of companies releasing models that
are not open weights models has a lot of
people wondering has this been getting
towards the end of the open weight sort
of movement now clearly deep seek has
shown that's not true and mistra is also
showing that's not true in here they
actually talk in the blog post about
renewing their commitment to using
Apache 2 licenses perhaps moving away
from some of the other licenses that
they've used in the past all right let's
jump in have a play with the model and
see what it can do okay so jumping into
the code I'm not going to go hugely into
depth testing the model I've just set up
a quick collab where we can test out
both the quality of the outputs some
function calling some structured outputs
that kind of thing to see how this goes
so you can access the model in two ways
you you can either download it from
huging face and run it locally or you
can do what I'm doing here is running
the model via their AP in here so you
can see that the way to do this is
pretty simple if you want to use the
Mistral SDK Etc you can also get this
going with Lang chain very easily I've
just basically imported this into Lang
chain and we can see that we can try it
out and it does very well so just
quickly going through these definitely
see we see that the answers are putting
out nice markdown pretty good Chain of
Thought stuff like that remember like I
said earlier on this is really a more a
Workhorse model than like your top tier
model the outputs are pretty quick but
they're also pretty thorough in here and
we can see that the data that the
model's been trained on clearly is
updated from previous models we've got a
lot more detail when we ask these
questions of what's the difference
between a llama vuna and alpaca Etc the
model also does a pretty good job at
adapting to other personas Etc here we
can see the question I ask about pretend
you're a Freddy a young 5-year-old boy
it does that no problem interestingly
when we ask it to be Kate the vice
president it actually signs it off Cala
Harris that one's a little bit off there
but one of the things I was really
impressed is that while it will often
give really long answers out when you
ask it specifically hey write out your
short and succinct answer in here you
can see it just gives us a one-word
answer for what is the capital of
England and I think many of you know
that's one of the things that frustrated
me with a lot of the models that even
when you would tell it be super succinct
it would give you out a full sentence
response or it would incorporate your
question in here so I really like that
this is able to just quickly work out
that okay we just want this short answer
let's just give the one word out there
has no problems with things like can
Jeffrey Hinton talk to George Washington
it also does a nice job on the
storytelling being able to get that
going as well definitely not as good as
something like the Mr Large or other
models that are out there for that but
like I said don't look at this as being
necessarily the best most intelligent
model out there this is going to be like
your Workhorse that replaces your sort
of calls to GPT 40 mini to sort of flash
model Etc GSM 8K it handles each of
these really nicely gets the correct
answer for all of them and gives this
nice simple Chain of Thought out for the
not overly complex and stuff in there
all right if we try it for things like
structured outputs I've just taken the
Lang chain structured output examples
here and you can see that when we run
this through it's able to do a very good
job at working out pulling out the
different things returning the
structured output the way that we want
it and stuff in there also for function
calling it does a nice job as well now
i' probably play with the system prompt
a little bit more for that I found that
if I asked it too easy in a question it
tries to just give you the right answer
in this case where we've got got adding
integers and multiplying integers here
but when I give it something a little
bit harder sure enough it then is able
to call the function it's able to get
the arguments right and deal with that
the same with multiple function calls
here so you can see here we've got what
is 3 * 12 also what is 11 and 49 you see
this calling the tools it's making the
right calls to basically get those
things out there so overall I would say
this model is definitely worth you
checking out I haven't touched anything
on the fine tuning and stuff like that
but it shows a lot of promise to do fine
tuning there my guess is that we're
going to see a number of sort of fine
tunes of this come out and especially
with being able to run this with AMA
you're then going to be able to get you
know all the benefits out of that as
well if you're running it locally if you
wanted to do a local rag system or a
local chatbot Etc so overall a very
promising model from mistra great to see
them back releasing you know open-source
base models as well as the instruct
models and great to see them stepping up
and championing the sort of whole open
weights movement Again by contributing
good base models that people can use for
fine-tuning all right I'd love to hear
from you guys in the comments what are
the key things you would like to use
this for I do think we're moving to a
world now where you will have expensive
models for certain calls and much
cheaper models that you will use for
sort of 80% of the work that you would
do this is something that is becoming
clear and I think it's going to become
even more prevalent as we see some of
these newer bigger models coming out
over the next couple of months all right
as always if you found the video useful
please click like And subscribe and I
will talk to you in the next video bye
for now